README.md, before:

# Kickstarter_Challenge
I performed Statistical Analysis using Conditional Formatting within Microsoft Excel to find outcomes based on Kickstarter Data
---
# Kickstarting with Excel
---
## Overview of Project
The purpose of the followinig analysis was to analyze Kickstarter data in order to determine how campaign outcomes relate to their launch dates and funding goals so the client can best determine how to set up their Kickstarter campaign.
---
### Purpose
Our client is looking to start a Kickstarter Fundraiser for her play and requested direction based on other campaigns. The purpose of this project was to use data analysis and visualization to come to conclusions about campaign data and to determine the best direction for the client's fundraiser for their campaign.
---
## Analysis and Challenges
Kickstarter Campaign Data was analyzed to determine relations between successful, failed, and canceled campaigns. Challenges that arose from this analysis were categorizing data based on criteria specifically tailored to the client's specific campaign details. Conditional Formatting with Excel challenges arose when grouping specific data poits based on Category, Subcategory, and Dates. These challenges were alleviated and overcame using meticulous analysis of the data which came about from grouping data into category such as 'Successful', 'Failed', and 'Canceled' to better visualize data points for a more comprehensive understandnig. 
---
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
The Analysis of Outcomes based on Launch Date revealed that the best time to launch a Kickstarter Fundraiser Campaign for our client will be during the months of May and June. These months yieled outcomes equal to or exceeding 100% of the Campaign's Goal.

![Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/86274124/125205539-c24cb480-e250-11eb-95f2-e335789037a7.png)

---
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
The Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals showed an inverse relationship between Failed and Successful campaigns. Canceled Campaigns factored in at 0%. The inverse relationship shows that Campaigns succeeded most with Goals ranging from less than $1,000 to $4,999 and Goals ranging from $35,000 to $44,999.

![Outcomes_vs_Goals](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/86274124/125205554-d42e5780-e250-11eb-901e-f5b32eb5263a.png)


---
### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
Challenges and Difficulties encountered stemmed from proper Conditional Formatting and criteria needed to properly analyze and visualize data. Once proper criteria was determined and proper categories were stated, analysis and visualization quickly followed. 
---
## Results
**Conclusions and Results that can be drawn for the client are thus:**
---
### What are two conclusions you can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date?
1.) It can be conclude that the client should launch her Kickstarter Campaign between the months of May and June, as these months proved to yield outcomes equal to or exceeding 100% of the asked fundraising goal. Our client should avoid the months of January, March, September, November, and December as these months has the lowest successful outcomes.
---
### What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?
2.)  It can be concluded that the client's goal has the highest chance of being successfully met if the goal is between $0 and $4,999 as well as if it is between $35,000 and $44,999. These goals were found to have the highest Success rate. The client should avoid goals that are between $20,000 and $34,999 and that are between $45,000 and above. These goals were found to have the highest Fail rate.
---
### What are some limitations of this dataset?
3.) Limitations of this dataset were found to be outliers in the dataset, limitations in goal amounts based in the categories "Play" and "Theater," and limitations in quantity of campaigns that matched the client's specific criteria.
---
### What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?
4.) Other tables and/or graphs could be made to show which locations have the most successful campaigns, such as by country of origin. It may also benefit the client to have a table representing the success of a campaign over time - how long did successful campaigns last after the fact? Unfortunatley we do not have this data, but such data would inform the client further on how to manage their campaign into the future.

Commit message:

README File Edited
README File Edited for formatting

README.md, after:

# Kickstarter Challenge 2021
I performed Statistical Analysis using Conditional Formatting within Microsoft Excel to find outcomes based on Kickstarter Data
---
# Kickstarting with Excel

## Overview of Project
The purpose of the followinig analysis was to analyze Kickstarter data in order to determine how campaign outcomes relate to their launch dates and funding goals so the client can best determine how to set up their Kickstarter campaign. To start a successful Kickstarter campaign takes preparation, planning, and meticulous analysis of multiple variables that can affect one's success. As such, Data Analysis is to be employed to find relations and descriptive statistics that can yield results for the benefit of the client's future actions. The client wishes to see how different campaigns faired in relation to their funding goals and launch dates to better inform the client on their own place titled "Fever."
---
### Purpose
The client is looking to start a Kickstarter Fundraiser for her play "Fever" and requested direction based on other campaigns' funding goals and launch dates. The purpose of this project was to use data analysis and visualization to come to conclusions about campaign data and to determine the best direction for the client's fundraiser for their campaign by showing how play campaigns faiired in relatiion to launch date and fundraising goals.
---
## Analysis and Challenges
Kickstarter Campaign Data was analyzed to determine relations between successful, failed, and canceled campaigns to create a better picture of the data in relation to launch dates and fundraising goals. Challenges that arose from this analysis were categorizing data based on criteria specifically tailored to the client's specific campaign details. Conditional Formatting with Excel challenges arose when grouping specific data poits based on Category, Subcategory, and Dates. These challenges were alleviated and overcame using meticulous analysis of the data which came about from grouping data into categorys such as 'Successful', 'Failed', and 'Canceled' to better visualize data points for a more comprehensive understanding. 
---
# Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
The Analysis of Outcomes based on Launch Date revealed that the best time to launch a Kickstarter Fundraiser Campaign for the client will be during the months of May and June. These months yieled outcomes equal to or exceeding 100% of the Campaign's Goal.

![Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/86274124/125205539-c24cb480-e250-11eb-95f2-e335789037a7.png)

---
# Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
The Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals showed an inverse relationship between Failed and Successful campaigns. Canceled Campaigns factored in at 0%. The inverse relationship shows that Campaigns succeeded most with Goals ranging from less than $1,000 to $4,999 and Goals ranging from $35,000 to $44,999. The client is advised to ask for goals within these ranges to maximize her chances of successful funding. 

![Outcomes_vs_Goals](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/86274124/125205554-d42e5780-e250-11eb-901e-f5b32eb5263a.png)

---
## Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
Challenges and Difficulties encountered stemmed from proper Conditional Formatting and criteria needed to properly analyze and visualize data. Once proper criteria was determined and proper categories were stated, analysis and visualization quickly followed. 
---
### Results
**Conclusions and Results that can be drawn for the client are thus:**

# What are two conclusions you can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date?
1.) It can be conclude that the client should launch her Kickstarter Campaign between the months of May and June, as these months proved to yield outcomes equal to or exceeding 100% of the asked fundraising goal. The client should avoid the months of January, March, September, November, and December as these months has the lowest successful outcomes.
---
# What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?
2.)  It can be concluded that the client's goal has the highest chance of being successfully met if the goal is between $0 and $4,999 as well as if it is between $35,000 and $44,999. These goals were found to have the highest Success rate. The client should avoid goals that are between $20,000 and $34,999 and that are between $45,000 and above. These goals were found to have the highest Fail rate.
---
# What are some limitations of this dataset?
3.) Limitations of this dataset were found to be outliers in the dataset, limitations in goal amounts based in the categories "Play" and "Theater," and limitations in quantity of campaigns that matched the client's specific criteria.
---
# What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?
4.) Other tables and/or graphs could be made to show which locations have the most successful campaigns, such as by country of origin. It may also benefit the client to have a table representing the success of a campaign over time - how long did successful campaigns last after the fact? Unfortunatley we do not have this data, but such data would inform the client further on how to manage their campaign into the future.

*A written report file is also included in this project's repository*
